my name is Molly McKinley I'm the ipfs
project lead we're here in Barcelona
Spain for the first IP FS camp it's June
2019 and we're really excited to bring
together this awesome community of
developers and community organizers and
hackers who are so excited about
building the next distributed web I'm
really excited to get to meet all of
these faces that I mostly know as github
handles and also find opportunities to
connect people there's some really cool
components of ipfs camp that really
brought people into participating in the
community and those were things like the
poster sessions and the deep dives where
you're either taking existing parts of
the ipfs stack like the DHT or bit swap
or other content routing protocols or
kind of features that were built on top
of that and deep diving on that problem
and building a poster of how does it
actually work which is a really cool
experience to get people who are less
familiar with something leveled up on it
and then the deep dives are like big
open problems where it's like we don't
know the answer to this let's get
together in a group and talk about the
solution space and and see if there's
anything we can propose that was like I
think a cool demonstration of the fact
that we're all in this community working
on these same problems and coming up
with what the solution should be and
anyone's empowered to go in and go and
solve it come up with a proposal and
solution the sci-fi fair was the most
high-energy part of the entire event
because you had all of these like either
physical or digital things that people
had built there was like a new ble
transport for limb p2p so that people
can be sharing you know messages and
other things over Bluetooth you had like
laser catbots
control these super awesome like
mechanical BOTS with lasers attached to
them looked super amazing there was a
really cool DHT visualizer there were
the textile folks had this tag app that
everyone was running around there was
also some tons of lightning talks and
that for me also really opened up the
your eyes as to all the cool stuff
happening in this ecosystem stuff that
like you know I didn't know existed I
don't think anyone else in the community
new because there wasn't a you know a
forum or a way of like broadcasting out
about it there was a cool lightning talk
about each DNS which is this cool thing
that the etherium name service is
working on to kind of make it so that
you can resolve ENS domains that you can
do like you know someone someone's
website dot eth and then resolve it over
IP FS there are people from all over the
community that participated in creating
kind of workshops or giving kind of
how-to presentations of using various
parts of the FS ecosystem with IP MS
stack so really great explainers on like
what is a DHT what is a distributed hash
table why do I care so there was
workshops on how files work you know
what what the tree looks like what the
different options are for kind of how to
chunk this up how to you know map
between nodes there was awesome stuff on
like kind of doing content routing above
that so like you know how bits what
works there's a lot of really awesome
stuff there as well to either level up
on core parts of ipfs or on core like
kind of pieces of the ecosystem that a
lot of people are starting to use like
the textile stock that group gave a a
really awesome workshop on the work
they're doing there was a workshop on
identity there was a workshop on IBM s
cluster and so a lot of stuff that you
know kind of builds up a core
understanding and then branches on top
of it to like figure out what those you
know pieces that people want to use a
lot but they wants opportunity to
understand it and actually practice
doing it with someone and in doing this
in trying to create these workshops
people also we're looking at the
documentation and we're looking at
things I mean like we could actually
embed these teaching tools back into the
the core bits of where we're trying to
explain this either in the documentation
or in stuff like proto school which is
trying to have workshops and have
content that people can use to level up
on concepts in the D web space it was
more about like you know everyone being
involved in creating this content you
know it's a camp right or it's not so
much like you know a series of
presentations it was like people getting
together and like hacking on stuff
having on ideas creating posters sharing
knowledge and that really got people
connected to each other and showing
their own project
and getting people excited about their
project so that you know there's an
opportunity to collaborate or use
something which you know super exciting